---
layout: post
title: "Who Pays Your Technical Debt?"
modified:
categories:
excerpt:
tags: []
comments: y
share: y
date: 2014-08-23
---

Technical debt is a term used to describes all of the shoddy bits of code, and bad practices that creep into code overtime. Like real monetary debt, technical debt can be benifical in the short term, but tends to be detrimental in the long term. It can accumulate due to not knowing any better, time constraints, or simply not caring. A significant fraction of the code I've written currently lacks documentation, tests, or even simple comments. Starting a project I always think "I'll do this one right", but inevitably best practices are sacrificed to the deadline gods. More technical debt gets accrued when I write throwaway scripts. But throwaway scripts almost never are thrown away. They morph, and grow and require attention whenever they are used. We have one R script that requires debugging everytime it is used. Technical debt is the things that you should fix, that you say you'll fix, but you never quite get around to it.
At some point your technical debt will have to be paid, either by you or your users. If you've spent anytime working with academic software, you've probably tried to install a software package and found at least one undocumented dependency. Or you've opened up a README with only 5 rather unhelpful lines. In these cases it is up to the user to pay down the technical debt. And every single user has to pay. Every time someone tries to install the software, they have to rediscover all of those dependencies, and invest their time and effort. Not only does taking time to pay down your technical debt make your code easier to work with and maintain, it can  also make your code more useable for others. And more useable code means they can do things that really matter, like paying down their own technical debt.
